We are now just
hours away from
what is supposed to be the start
of this
temporary truce in this war
between Israel and Hamas.
This deal
does not come without criticism
even here in Israel.
There have been questions
about making this deal.
The former Trump
national security adviser,
John Bolton says is that
it is a badly flawed agreement
and he joins us now.
Thank you so much,
Ambassador, for being here.
You have been critical
because essentially,
if I believe this right,
and tell me if I'm wrong,
you think that Hamas gains more from this
than Israel does.
What exactly about this deal
do you think is so bad
Well, there are many specific provisions
that I think are badly misguided.
But but fundamentally,
what's going on here is that
Hamas is playing
a game
of psychological warfare
against the people of Israel
and the people of the United States
as well,
trying to distract
Israel
from its strategic mission
of eliminating Hamas and trying to focus
on the question of the hostages,
the question
of the condition of civilians in Gaza.
Obviously,
this is a heart wrenching situation
and you can feel nothing
but compassion
for the families of the hostages.
But in cold fact, Israel
strategic mission here
is much more important.
But if the
if the Hamas effort can help break
the morale, can help break the resolve
of the Israeli forces,
what they really want to do,
and this is the real play,
is to turn this four day pause
into a permanent cease fire.
Now, I don't think they're going
to achieve that at the first iteration,
but they're trying to put the onus
on the Israeli forces
if and when they begin hostilities again.
They are playing, I think, a
and surprisingly sophisticated
psychological game here.
I don't think this one event
is necessarily
going to be the Alpha and omega.
But if this sets a precedent
that undermines Israeli resolve
to achieve
what they're
legitimately entitled
to achieve, the elimination of Hamas
as a threat.
It'll be a huge
victory for the terrorists.
So the flip side of that argument
and something that I was reading today
from having read
to Gerhard Dryer
here for the Times of Israel in Tel Aviv,
he basically believes
that Hamas agreed
to this deal out of desperation.
Why do you think Hamas agreed to this
with Israel?
Well, I think on balance,
in a military sense,
Hamas is the beneficiary
more than the Israeli side.
Certainly, as you heard from your
your previous guest,
the Israelis are going to move
people around.
They're going to change troops,
that they're going
to do a number of things.
They will take advantage of
of the pause as well.
But it's Hamas
that's getting pounded here.
I don't think we know the full amount of
devastation that the Israeli forces
have wrought.
But it's Hamas that needs the break.
And the longer they can make that break,
the better off they'll be.
I don't think
people should forget that
at the beginning of this war,
the Biden administration
sent military advisers
to Israel
that said, look,
learn from our experiences in Iraq
and Afghanistan.
Don't rush in, pal mail.
Take your time this is very complicated
using the examples, particularly
of Fallujah and Mosul in Iraq,
which took nine
to 12 months for American
and Iraqi forces to secure.
We're seven weeks into this.
There's a long way to go.
But if Israel's resolve can be weakened
and broken,
they'll never get to the amount of time
they really need to accomplish the stated
objective of eliminating Hamas
That is, I mean, quite an objective.
They're not just saying
they want to demean or diminish Hamas.
They have used
words like eliminate and eradicate Hamas.
We heard from the defense
minister earlier
saying that after this pause, he believes
it will take two more months of fighting.
Do you realistically think
that Israel
can achieve that goal within two months?
Well, you know,
I read that comment as well.
I understood that to be
saying to the Israeli forces, we've
got two months of intense struggle
ahead of us.
I didn't see it
as limiting it to two months.
But part of the psychological campaign,
part of the propaganda effort here
is to undercut
Israel's ability
to get to that stated objective.
For example,
the Russian prime minister,
Medvedev, said a couple of weeks ago
that Israel, as an occupying power
which it's not, by the way,
in the Gaza Strip,
but as an occupying power,
did not have a legitimate
right of self-defense,
meaning implicitly that everything
Israel has done since October
the seventh
has been illegitimate,
since it doesn't have the right
to self-defense.
A senior U.N., quote unquote,
human rights official
who said the same thing about a week ago,
that that's going to be
part of the argument here,
to say you've gone far enough,
you don't have to eliminate it,
just sit down and negotiate with them.
You can see it coming.
And what I worry about is the pause,
if it begins in a few hours,
is just the opening wedge to
achieve that objective.
So you think that that
once Israel
has agreed to this
this pause, once it starts
just literally in a matter of hours
from now,
the basically the international criticism
of Israel
restarting its military campaign
will be so high
that they may not actually do it
Well, I think I think the Israelis
are pretty immune
to a lot of blabbering internationally.
What I worry about
is that the White House
is losing its resolve.
There's no secret
if you if you read an American papers,
you can see many of the pro-Palestinian
elements of the Democratic Party
are saying
they want the pause
to be transformed into a truce
or into a cease fire.
A lot of these words become
interchangeable after a while.
And that's the objective.
And I think Biden recognizes
he's got
a severe problem
because of the schism
within the Democratic Party.
So domestic U.S.
politics are going to play a role here.
And if if the
if the mood can be shifted
Talking about
the anguish of the hostages.
Nobody
nobody really talks
about the 190 hostages
who are not going to be released
in the next four days.
You know,
this can have a significant impact.
I think
really the questioning that Medvedev
has started off
of, the legitimacy of
what Israel is doing
is just going to be amplified
what the Israelis need to do and frankly,
what the United States needs to do
is reinforce
the legitimacy
of self-defense,
permitting Israel in this situation
not to minimize the threat,
but to eliminate the threat.
And the threat really is not just Hamas.
Ultimately,
think of Hezbollah in the north
for almost the entire seven weeks
since October the seventh,
they've been shelling
targets in northern Israel.
All of this
under the watchful eyes
of the mullahs in Tehran.
This is a much bigger conflict than just
in the Gaza Strip.
Yeah.
And Hezbollah is not party
to this temporary truce.
Of course, Ambassador
John Bolton, as always,
thank you for your time.
Thanks for joining us
tonight on Thanksgiving.
Thank you.
Happy Thanksgiving.